# Background

With the advent of Bitcoin in 2009, digital currency became a part of conducting business transactions. In 2013, Ethereum introduced Smart Contracts, also known as computer code, that opened the door for various applications using Blockchain. The smart contract code was written using Solidity/Go language and executed in an Ethereum Virtal Machine (EVM) environment. The cost of executing these transactions has been very high due to rise in price of Ethereum. In addition, there have been challenges with the scalability of the network. Other blockchains have solved this problem using different consensus algorithms and technology. For example, Algorand, a non-EVM Layer-1 blockchain, has a very low transaction fee and higher throughput. Similarly, Polygon is a Layer-2 scaling solution that also has low transaction cost.

Blockchain eco system has grown considerably with many new type of applications such as Digital Identity, Decentralized Finance (DeFi), Gaming, Non Fungible Tokens (NFT) and others. But, current blockchain systems exist as silos and therefore, have evolved unevenly. There is a strong need for cross-chain communication, moving assets from one chain to other to take advantage of the facilities available unique to a blockchain. Cross-chain communication will help accelerate the growth of Blockchain eco-system as a whole. Zero Bridge leads the way to make this a reality by integrating Ethereum, Algorand, Polygon and other EVM and non-EVM blockchains.&#x20;
